#summary One-sentence summary of this page.
#labels corejavafaq

= FAQ=

== 1. What is the difference between static and instance method? ==
   Instance methods can be called by the object of a Class whereas static method are called by the Class.

 When objects of a Class are created, they have their own copy of instance methods and variables, stored in different memory locations.

 Static Methods and variables are shared among all the objects of the Class, stored in one fixed location in memory.Static methods cannot access instance variables or instance methods directly-they must use an object reference. Also, class methods cannot use the this keyword as there is no instance for this to refer to.

{{{
    Calc class method add is instance method

    Calc calulator= new Calc();
    calciulator.add(4,55);
}}}

== 2. why is main method static and public ==

== 3. When should we use static methods and instance method ==

== 4. what is an instance? ==


== 5. difference b/n class and object ==
== 6. Give an example of using OOP principles used in a bank. Eg: A user has a savings and current account in the bank. How do you model this in java. Hint: Try to think of encapsulation, inheritence here. ==

== 7. Collections ==
[http://www.allapplabs.com/interview_questions/java_collection_interview_questions.htm Interview questions]

[http://www.techinterviews.com/master-list-of-java-interview-questions master list]

[http://www.javapractices.com/topic/TopicAction.do;jsessionid=0B2FC0D84B0F9435FEF7762D0A58D6C8?Id=65 what collections to use]